Devesh Gokalgandhi
dgokalg1
Project Proposal (Escherichia coli Sequence Exporter)
A mySQL database will be built using the information given within the Escherichia coli gff3 file, taking advantage of the tab delimited format of the gff3 file, in which the data from each of the 9 columns will be displayed within a 9 column table, the title of each column representing the specified information respectively from the gff3 file:
SeqID	Source	Type	Start	End	Score	Strand	Phase	Attributes
NC_000913.3	RefSeq	Gene	122021	122065	.	+	.	ID=gene01
NC_000913.3	RefSeq	Exon	122021	122079	.	-	.	ID=exon02

Using HTML, an interface will be created that prompts the user to enter feature type (gene, CDS, tRNA, exon), with possible jQuery autocomplete feature, and various choices of attributes, whether it’s the value of the ID:VALUE tag pair, parent gene id, alias, gene id, gene symbol, etc. The information that is inputted by the user into the form elements, will translate into variables within a CGI script, in which it will connect to the mysql database using mysql.connector, and extract the row/rows of information (without allowing SQL injection) relevant to the input. The SeqID, source, type, score, strand, phase, and attribute will be appended to a list from the extracted row/rows and displayed on the web page by HTML, while the start and end coordinates will be saved to extract the sequence from the genomic fasta file, which is to be displayed by the HTML. Any negative strand sequences will be reverse complemented accordingly.  Additional analytics that will be provided include sequence length, GC content of the sequence, and potentially, the nucleotide gene sequences extracted will be translated into protein sequences (in the CGI script), providing amino acid composition. CSS would appropriately be implemented to give the form elements and all data/information shown on the web page, as well as the page itself, a more visually pleasing display. 
One possibility occurs in which the E.coli protein fasta file can be read and appended to a dictionary data structure, the key representing the header (which includes the detailed name of the gene) and value being the respective amino acid sequence of the gene. With the amino acid sequence translated from the genomic fasta file, a reverse search could occur, that exactly matches the value of the protein fasta dictionary to the translated amino acid sequence and extract the full gene name to be displayed by the HTML, however this would depend on the accuracy of the match between the translated amino acid sequence and the values from the protein fasta dictionary.    
All data used, the genomic fasta file, genomic gff3 file and protein fasta file for Escherichia coli were provided by NCBI database, and these will be organized within a subdirectory of the final directory for access by the CGI script. The HTML will be placed inside a ‘final’ directory along with the CGI file, and the CSS will be placed within a ‘css’ subdirectory. 

